{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf2636
\cocoatextscaling0\cocoaplatform0{\fonttbl\f0\fswiss\fcharset0 ArialMT;\f1\fswiss\fcharset0 Arial-BoldMT;\f2\froman\fcharset0 Times-Roman;
}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;\red0\green0\blue0;\red0\green0\blue233;}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;\cssrgb\c0\c0\c0;\cssrgb\c0\c0\c93333;}
\paperw11900\paperh16840\margl1440\margr1440\vieww23260\viewh14040\viewkind0
\deftab720
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs24 \cf0 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
The 
\f1\b Chow Chow
\f0\b0  is a \cf3 \ul \ulc3 spitz\cf0 \ulnone -type of {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Dog_breed"}}{\fldrslt \cf3 \ul \ulc3 dog breed}} originally from {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/North_China"}}{\fldrslt \cf3 \ul \ulc3 northern}} {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/China"}}{\fldrslt \cf3 \ul \ulc3 China}}.The Chow Chow is a sturdily built dog, square in profile, with a broad skull and small, triangular, erect ears with rounded tips. The breed is known for a very dense {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Double_coat"}}{\fldrslt \cf3 \ul \ulc3 double coat}} that is either smooth or rough. The fur is particularly thick in the neck area, giving it a distinctive {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Ruff_(clothing)"}}{\fldrslt \cf3 \ul \ulc3 ruff}} or mane appearance. The coat may be shaded/self-red, black, blue, cinnamon/fawn, or cream.\
\
\pard\pardeftab720\sa240\partightenfactor0
\cf0 The Chow Chow has been identified as a {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Dog_breed#Basal_breeds"}}{\fldrslt \cf3 \ul \ulc3 basal breed}} that predates the emergence of the modern breeds in the 19th Century.
\fs20 \cf3 \super \ul \ulc3  
\fs24 \cf0 \nosupersub \ulnone One writer proposed that the Chow Chow originated in China 2,000 years ago or possibly originated in Arctic Asia 3,000 years ago which migrated to {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Mongolia"}}{\fldrslt \cf3 \ul Mongolia}}, then to China.\
One Chinese legend mentions large war dogs from Central Asia that resembled black-tongued lions. One Chinese ruler was said to own 5,000 Chows. The Chinese also used Chows to pull {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Dog_sled"}}{\fldrslt \cf3 \ul dog sleds}} through swampy terrain, and this was remarked upon by {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Marco_Polo"}}{\fldrslt \cf3 \ul Marco Polo}}.\
Today, the {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/American_Kennel_Club"}}{\fldrslt \cf3 \ul American Kennel Club}} registers approximately 10,000 Chow Chows a year. The {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Canadian_Kennel_Club"}}{\fldrslt \cf3 \ul Canadian Kennel Club}} registers approximately 350.\
The Chow Chow is a sturdily built dog, square in profile, with a broad skull and small, triangular, erect ears with rounded tips. The breed is known for a very dense {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Double_coat"}}{\fldrslt \cf3 \ul double coat}} that is either smooth or rough.
\fs20 \cf3 \super \ul  
\fs24 \cf0 \nosupersub \ulnone The fur is particularly thick in the neck area, giving it a distinctive {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Ruff_(clothing)"}}{\fldrslt \cf3 \ul ruff}} or {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://en.wiktionary.org/wiki/mane"}}{\fldrslt \cf3 \ul mane}} appearance. The coat may be shaded/self-red, black, blue, cinnamon/fawn, or cream.
\fs20 \cf3 \super \ul  
\fs24 \cf0 \nosupersub \ulnone Not all these color varieties are recognized as valid in all countries. Individuals with patchy or multicolored coats are considered to be outside the breed standard. Chow Chow eyes are typically deep set and almond shaped. The breed is unique by their purple/blue-black tongue which no other breed has except {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Shar_Pei"}}{\fldrslt \cf3 \ul Shar Pei}}, and has very straight hind legs, resulting in a rather stilted gait.
\fs20 \cf3 \super \ul  
\fs24 \cf0 \nosupersub \ulnone The bluish color extends to the Chow Chow's lips; this is the only dog breed with this distinctive bluish color in its lips and oral cavity (other dogs have black or a piebald pattern skin in their mouths).
\fs20 \super \uc0\u8202 
\fs24 \nosupersub  Another distinctive feature is the curly tail. It has thick hair and lies curled on its back. The nose should be black, but blue-coated Chow Chow can have a solid blue or slate-colored nose. According to the American Kennel Club breed standards, any other tone is not acceptable for contests.
\fs20 \cf3 \super \ul  
\fs24 \cf0 \nosupersub \ulnone FCI countries, however, do allow a self-colored nose in the cream.\
The blue-black/purple tongue gene appears to be dominant, as most mixed breed dogs that come from a Chow Chow retain that tongue color. However, the blue-black/purple tongue can also be found on the {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Shar_Pei"}}{\fldrslt \cf3 \ul Shar Pei}}. This is not to say that every mixed breed dog with spots of purple on the tongue is descended from Chow Chow, as purple spots on the tongue can be found on other {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Purebred_dog"}}{\fldrslt \cf3 \ul purebred dogs}}.\
Most commonly kept as pets, Chow Chows tend to display discernment of strangers and can become fiercely protective of their owners and property. The {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/American_Kennel_Club"}}{\fldrslt \cf3 \ul American Kennel Club}} standards, however, consider an all-too aggressive or all-too timid Chow Chow to be unacceptable.
\fs20 \cf3 \super \ul  
\fs24 \cf0 \nosupersub \ulnone For that reason, some owners have attributed a cat-like personality to the Chow Chow.\
Chow Chow are not excessively active, meaning that they can be housed in an apartment. However, a Chow Chow living in an apartment will need daily exercise to prevent restlessness and boredom. Upon realizing that exercise is a daily occurrence, Chow Chow will tend to be more assertive with owners in anticipation of such activities.\
This breed of dog has many strong loyal bonds with friends and family, but the Chow Chow dog is usually overly protective of one or two main family members.
\fs20 \cf3 \super \ul  
\fs24 \cf0 \nosupersub \ulnone It is in the breed's nature to be quiet and well-behaved, but it is also resistant to training. Chow Chows become very stubborn and attach to certain individuals as they age. This makes training them when they are puppies crucial, because they gain respect for those who care for them.\
To avoid aggression and over-protectiveness as an adult, continuous socialization as early as possible could allow the dog to adjust. When a Chow Chow reaches adolescence it rejects authority from any owner who failed to earn its admiration. Aggression can be one distinctive behavioural characteristic in this breed, though while some are of an aggressive nature, many are known to be easy-going in nature \'96 sometimes adopting an aloof disposition to individuals other than their owners. Aggression when it does appear is often towards other dogs of the same gender, especially Chows. Due to their strong hunting instincts, it is recommended that these dogs stay fenced, leashed, and away from cats and small dogs. This is why it is crucial that they are socialized early and consistently to act appropriately with strangers. At first, Chow Chows are very hesitant in interacting with strangers. However, this problem can be avoided if the owners train the Chow Chow at a young age.\
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf0 The Chow Chow can suffer from {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Entropion"}}{\fldrslt \cf3 \ul entropion}},
\fs20 \cf3 \super \ul  {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Glaucoma"}}{\fldrslt 
\fs24 \nosupersub glaucoma}}
\fs24 \cf0 \nosupersub \ulnone , juvenile {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Cataracts"}}{\fldrslt \cf3 \ul cataracts}}, {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Lymphoma"}}{\fldrslt \cf3 \ul lymphoma}}, {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Hip_dysplasia_(canine)"}}{\fldrslt \cf3 \ul hip dysplasia}}, {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Diabetes_mellitus"}}{\fldrslt \cf3 \ul diabetes mellitus}}, canine {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Pemphigus"}}{\fldrslt \cf3 \ul pemphigus}}, and {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Gastric_cancer"}}{\fldrslt \cf3 \ul gastric cancer}}. Chow Chows are a high risk breed for {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Autoimmune_disease"}}{\fldrslt \cf3 \ul autoimmune disease}}
\fs20 \cf3 \super \ul  
\fs24 \cf0 \nosupersub \ulnone and are at a predisposition for skin {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Melanoma"}}{\fldrslt \cf3 \ul melanoma}}\cf3 \ul \
\
\cf0 \ulnone Chow breed will heavily shed their fur in the seasons of spring and autumn, which requires more grooming attention than other seasons. It is important that owners use the correct tool to avoid harming the skin and facilitate grooming. Three kinds of brushes that owners can use on their Chow Chow are a medium-coarse brush for the larger parts of the body, a slick brush for smaller areas, and a pin brush to maintain the longer strands of hair.
\fs20 \cf3 \super \ul  
\fs24 \cf0 \nosupersub \ulnone Chow Chows are known to have either short and smooth coat, or a rougher and longer coat. Both create a thick woolly layer, as it gets closer to the skin. They should be brushed four times a week; however shedding seasons may require daily grooming. Also, a spray conditioner can help avoiding breakage and tearing to the thick coat of hair. Lastly, a monthly bath is required to avoid fleas and keep a clean coat of fur.
\f2 \
\

\f0 Source: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Chow_Chow }